# Summary

Lots of work on the chain spec this week, as well as generators for delegation.

# Remarks

- We're almost done on the chain spec rewrite.
- Milestone is coming close to completion, finally!

# PRs and issues completed

| Issue/PR | Summary | Epic | Contributors | Created | Finished | Comments|
|----------|---------|------|--------------|---------|----------|---------|
| [266](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/266) | Add: Block body validation. | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-25 | |
| [222](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/222) | Update `ProtocolMagic` to include `RequiresNetworkMagic` | | |2018-12-17 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [248](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/248) | Fully define block body validation in the chain spec | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6) | 2019-01-21 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [250](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/250) | [#222] Update `ProtocolMagic` to include `RequiresNetworkMagic` | | [Jimbo4350](https://github.com/Jimbo4350), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-21 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [258](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/258) | Group the premises of the chain rules into header transition and body transitions | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6) | 2019-01-23 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [260](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/260) | Switch to using new let-binding syntax. | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-23 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [261](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/261) | Factor out BHEAD and BBODY rules | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [263](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/263) | Upgrade cardano-binary to GHC 8.6.3 | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [264](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/264) | Upgrade cardano-binary to GHC 8.6.3 | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [265](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/265) | Upgrade cardano-crypto-wrapper to GHC 8.6.3 | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [247](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/247) | Incorporate epoch calculations into the chain spec | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6) | 2019-01-21 | 2019-01-24 | |
| [267](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/267) | Upgrade cardano-crypto-wrapper to depend on GHC 8.6.3 | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [268](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/268) | Add: Weekly report | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-24 | 2019-01-25 | |
| [269](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/269) | Support building with Cabal only | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic) | 2019-01-25 | 2019-01-25 | |
| [270](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/270) | Add support for building with Cabal at the top level | | [mdimjasevic](https://github.com/mdimjasevic), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-25 | 2019-01-25 | |
| [273](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/273) | Add: Update interface section. | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-28 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [274](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/issues/274) | Specify in the blockchain spec that 0.22 is a good constant for the `t` parameter. | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6) | 2019-01-28 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [275](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/275) | Update cardano-mainnet-mirror to lfs version | | [ruhatch](https://github.com/ruhatch), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-28 | 2019-01-29 | |
| [276](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/276) | Replace git-lfs with cardano-mainnet-mirror Haskell package | | [ruhatch](https://github.com/ruhatch), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-29 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [277](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/277) | Add: Explanation of calculating t=0.22 | | [nc6](https://github.com/nc6), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-29 | 2019-01-30 | |
| [279](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/pull/279) | Pin binary and crypto versions in cardano-ledger | | [ruhatch](https://github.com/ruhatch), [iohk-bors[bot]](https://github.com/apps/iohk-bors) | 2019-01-30 | 2019-01-30 | |

# Milestone status

List of all milestones

## [Validate Generated Chain against Delegation Rules](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-ledger/milestone/2)

Summary of underway milestone

| Title                             | Value      |
|-----------------------------------|------------|
| Start Date                        | 2018-12-02 |
| Target end Date                   | 2018-12-14 |
| Estimated end Date                | YYYY-MM-DD |
| Issues Completed this week        | 1          |
| Total issues (complete/remaining) | 7/3        |

# Retrospective

The theme of the retrospective this week is "obligations"!

We come up with the following topics for discussion:

## Delivery requirements

It would in some ways be nice to have more higher level goals

Ru is working with Tamara and Ben to pitch a new organisational structure
(holacracy). This is explained as a "cell" - something whole in and of itself,
which is organised internally and only through a process of evolution does this
align with other cells. A process of making the structure of the organisation
much more explicit.

Gives a "constitutional" framework for running the organisation.

If we were to roll this out, would have to convince people to trial this. Would
be tried with teams not within the development side. They would motivate the
thing by seeing that it's working/not working for them.

Concrete change - one thing is to have much clearer definitions of who is
accountable for what on a much more fine-grained basis.

Suggest we should have some dedicated time to discuss this topic. Ru will come
up with some concrete ideas of things to try within the team. Ru is also going
to run the "holacracy" style retrospective next week.

Jared comments that the chain of command right now isn't even clear. He's not
even sure who his boss is!

## Reporting and timelines

Lots of sticky notes in here about how we show our work to the company. Alex
asks: how can we tell whether we're contributing to the company goal. Ru says
that the actual goal isn't so visible.

Jared claims that the biggest goal is decentralisation. But how do we get there?

We're moving forward in multiple ways now, integrating with multiple places. Ru
thinks that we're actually in a good place wrt milestones.

Ru suggests trying to define the minimal goals for a set of future milestones,
so we can focus on the minimum that's needed.

## Reviewing and discussion

Ru mentions that he thinks we should have more discussion on github rather than
on slack. We mention that at the moment we're basically reporting outcomes on
github.

Maybe we should have an explicit responsibility to write things up on github.

Alex talks about rotating roles, such as "note taking", "run the retrospective"
etc. These would be assigned to a different person every two week interval. This
didn't feel too onerous due to not having to do the same task all the time.

A good role for this could be chasing things on the github issues list.

## Making sure the specs are useful

Takes quite a lot of pushing to get feedback on specs. How do we tell they're
actually doing something sensible?

## Stack.yaml files

We end up with a discucssion on the nested stack.yaml files. I find them
confusing, Ru is in favour as a prelude to splitting the repo apart. We end with
no firm conclusions :-)
